in the last video we talked about the
Gaussian distribution in this video
let's apply that to develop an anomaly
detection algorithm let's say that we
have an unlabeled training set of M
examples and each of these examples is
going to be a feature in RN so your
training set could be an feature vectors
from the loss M aircraft engines the
manufactured or it could be features
from M users or something else the way
we're going to address anomaly detection
this would be great to model P effects
from this data set so try to figure out
what are high probability features and
what are the probability types of
features so X is a vector and what we're
going to do is model P of X as
probability of x1 that is of the first
component of x times the probability of
x2 so probably of the second feature
times the probability of third feature
and so on up to the probability of the
final feature X and then leaving space
here because I found something a minute
so how do we model each of these terms P
of X 1 P of X 2 and so on what we're
going to use what we're going to do is
assume that the feature X 1 is
distributed according to a Gaussian
distribution with some mean we write as
mu 1 and some variance which I'm going
to write as Sigma Squared's 1 and so P
of X 1 is going to be a Gaussian
probability distribution with mean mu1
and variance Sigma Squared's 1 and
similarly I've been assumed that X 2 is
distributed Gaussian that's what does
the Moto that stands for the mean is
distributed this disputed Gaussian with
mean mu 2 and Sigma squared - so it's
distributed according to a different
Gaussian which has a different set of
parameters mu 2 Sigma squared 2 and
similarly you know X 3 is yet another
Gaussian and so this can have a
different mean and the different
standard deviation then the other
features and so on up to xn
and so that's my model just as a side
comment for those of you that are
experts in statistics it turns out that
this equation that I just wrote up
actually corresponds to an independence
assumption on the values of the features
x1 through xn but in practice it turns
out that the Avrum are going to describe
it works just fine whether or not these
features are anywhere close to
independence and even if the
independence assumption doesn't have it
true this airman was just fine but in
case you don't know those terms that
just use you know independence of some
students and so on don't worry about it
the uu be able to understand and
implement this algorithm just fine and
that comment was really meant only for
the experts in statistics and finally in
all the Raptors up let me take this
expression and writes a little bit more
compactly so I'm going to write this is
a product from J equals 1 through n of P
of XJ parameters by mu J comma Sigma
squared J so this funny symbol here
especially a capital Greek alphabet PI
that funny symbol there corresponds to
taking the product of a set of values
and so you know you're familiar with the
summation notation so that write sum
from I equals 1 through n you know if I
this means 1 plus 2 Plus 3 plus daughter
thought up to n whereas this this funny
symbol here this product symbol read the
product from I equals 1 through n of I
then this means that it's just a
summation except that we're now
multiplying so this becomes 1 x 2 x 3 x
dot dot dot of
and so using this product notation this
product from J equals 1 through n of
this expression that's just a more
compact really shorter way of writing
out this huge product of all of these
terms out there since we're taking these
P of XJ given mu J comma Sigma squared J
terms that were multiplying them
together and by the way the problem of
estimating this distribution P of X s
sometimes called the probably the
problem of density estimation so has the
title of the slide
so putting everything together here's
our anomaly detection algorithm the
first step is to choose speeches or come
up with features X I that we think might
be indicative of anomalous example so
what I mean by that is Charlie come over
features so that when there's an unusual
user in your system that would be doing
fraudulent things or when for the
aircraft engine example well you know
there's something funny is something
strange about one of the aircraft
engines choose features anxiety that you
think might take on unusually large
values or unusually small values for
what an anomalous example might look
like but more generally you know just
try to choose features that describe
what you think that describe general
properties of the things that you're
collecting data on Nick's given a
training set of M unlabeled examples x1
through XM we then fit the parameters mu
1 through mu N and Sigma squared one is
from Sigma square n and so these were
the formulas similar to the formulas we
had in the previous video that we're
going to use to estimate each of these
parameters and just to give some
interpretation mu J that's my average
value of the J feature right so mu J
goes in this term P of XJ which is
parameterized by mu J and Sigma square J
and so this says you know for the MU J
just take the mean over my training set
of the values of the J feature and just
I mentioned that you do this you you
compute these formulas for J equals 1
through n so use these formulas to
estimate mu 1 to MU 2 and so on up to
you N and similarly for Sigma squared
and it's also possible to come up with
vectorized versions of these so if you
think of mu as a vector so mu is a
Tara this new one new to down team UN
then a vectorized version of that said
the parameters can be written like so
some for my equals one to end thanks I
and so this formula that I just rolled
out estimates you know where these X I
are the feature vectors this SVM you for
all the values of n simultaneously and
there's also possible to come up with a
vectorized formula for estimating Sigma
squared J finally when you given a new
example so when you have a new aircraft
engine then you want to know is this
aircraft engine anomalous what we need
to do is then compute P of X what's the
probability of this new example so P of
X is equal to this product and what you
implement what you compute is this
formula and we're over here you know
this thing here is just the formula for
the Gaussian probability and so you
compute this thing and finally if this
probability is very small you didn't
flag this thing as an anomaly here's an
example of an application of this method
that thing we have this data set plotted
on the upper left of this slide if you
look at this one let's look at the
features of x1 if you if you look at
this data set it looks like on average
the features x1 has a mean of about 5
and standard deviation if you look at
just the X 1 values of this data set it
has a standard deviation that may be 2
so that's Sigma 1 and looks like you
notice x2 the values of the features as
measured on the vertical axis and looks
like that has an average value of about
3 and the standard deviation of 1 so you
think to say this end and if you
estimate you know me1 me2 Sigma 1 Sigma
2 this is what you can gain I'm writing
Sigma here I'm thinking of standard
deviations but the formula on the
previous slide actually gave estimates
for the squares of these
mr. Cygnus great one in signal salinity
so just be careful whether using Sigma 1
Sigma 2 or Sigma square one or the Sigma
square 2 so Sigma 2 great one of course
would be equal to 4 for example there's
a square of 2 and in pictures what P of
x1 parametrized by mu 1 is Sigma square
one in P of x2 parametrized by mu 2 and
Sigma square - that would look like
these two distributions over here and
turns out that if you were to plot your
P of X right which is the product of
these two things you can actually get a
surface part that looks like this so
this is a part of P of X where the
height above this where the height of
the surface at a particular point so I'm
given a particular you know X 1 X 2
values of the fix 2 if X y equals 2x
equals 2 that's this point and the
height of this 3d surface here that's P
of X so P of X that is the height of
this plot so this is literally just P of
X 1 term rise by nu 1 Sigma squared 1
times P of X 2 parametrized by mu 2
Sigma square 2 now so this is how we fit
the parameters to this data let's say we
have a couple new examples maybe have a
new example there it's just an anomaly
or not so maybe I have a different
example you know maybe have a second
example over there so is that an anomaly
or not the way we do that is we would
set some value for epsilon let's say
I've chosen epsilon equals 0.02 we'll
see what was in the state I'll see later
how we choose epsilon but let's take
this first example then we call this
example x1
test and let me call the second example
you know x2
test what we do is B then compute P of
x1 test so we use this formula to
compute it and this looks like a pretty
large value in particular this is
greater than was greater than equal to
Epsilon and so there's a pretty high
probability at least bigger than epsilon
so we'll say that x1 test is not an
anomaly whereas if you compute P of x2
test well that's just a much smaller
value so this is less than epsilon
instead we'll say that that is indeed an
anomaly but this is much smaller than
that epsilon that we chose and in fact I
didn't prove it here you know what this
is really saying is that if you look at
this 3d surface plot is saying that all
the values of x1 and x2 that have a high
height above the surface corresponds to
a non-anomalous of an OK or normal
example whereas all the points far out
here you know all the points out here
all those points have very low
probability and so we're gonna flag
those points as anomalous and so it's
going to define some region that maybe
looks like this so that everything
outside of this affects as anomalous
whereas the things inside this lips I
just drew if it considers okay or not
but normal that's not at all this
example so this example x2 test you know
lies outside that region so it has very
small probability and so we considered
an anomalous example in this video we
talked about how to estimate P of X the
probability of X for the purpose of
developing an anomaly detection
algorithm and in this video we also step
through an entire process of giving and
instead you know fitting the parameters
doing practice mission to get mu and
Sigma parameters and then taking new
examples and designing of the new
examples our anomalous or not in the
next few videos we'll delve deeper into
this algorithm and talk a bit more about
how to actually get this to work well